Next up we have a different type of scope called lexical scope.
This one's pretty simple and straightforward.
When we have nested functions which we sometimes do maybe not at this point with what we're writing
but later on.
And if you learn things like react you'll have nested functions all the time.
If I have a nested function like the one I have here are the two functions I have outer and inside of
it.
I've defined another function called inner outer has a variable called hero.
Hero is defined in this function.
I don't have access to it outside of that function but if I am nested further in in a different function
I still have access to hero.
So I'll demonstrate this briefly.
Let's make we'll just go with inner and outer so function outer and then we'll have function inner and
in the outer function will declare a variable we'll call this movie equals day is great film great great
great film and then in inner let's access movie let's console that log movie dot to uppercase
so at this point how do I actually run inner if I run outer I'll run the code over here and I call outer
it doesn't return anything all that it does is declare a variable and then we have a function declaration
we're writing a function or declaring it but we're never calling it.
So if I execute inner from inside outer let's try it again now it is successfully counseled that logging
Amadeus in all caps movie was not defined in this function it was defined in its parent in the outer
function right here secondary to this what if I tried to call inner from outside this function I don't
have access to it it's just like I declared a variable instead of outer I declared a function it's called
inner.
I don't have access to it over here I only have access to it inside of outer unless I were to return
the function which is something we'll see later on.
So if I call inner from inside outer This is getting confusing with this.
The naming here if I execute outer it declares a variable movie sets it's Amadeus it knows about a function
we declare the function we define it here enter and then we call it.
So when it's called it concerned that logs movie it does not have a movie defined in here so it will
look for a different movie from the scope of the parent function which is called outer.
So lexical scope refers to the fact that nested functions are like sickly bound they're bound to the
scope of their parent or of their outer functions but it's a one way relationship it doesn't work the
other way around.
If I were to define a variable in here but X equals 10 I do not have access to X outside that function
just like regular function scope.
We've seen earlier on.
If I run outer we get Amadeus from the inner function running.
The variable is successfully declared in inner.
But I don't have access to it out here.
So a variable declared in one function is available to nested functions within it.
And then finally if I were to declare movie in this function a different movie let's say movie equals
what's another good movie.
How about The Shining.
What do you expect to happen here when we call inner from inside outer.
So when I execute outer it will declare movie in the scope of this function called outer.
Then we execute inner and inner defines its own version of movie called The Shining.
That's the value.
And then we're going to print movie out to uppercase.
Which movie is printed the shining behind the scenes.
The thought process if you want to think of it that way inside of this function is when we reference
movie it's going to look to see is there a movie in this function is there a movie defined in this scope.
If it doesn't find it it will look further up.
Is there a movie defined up here.
And if there is then it we'll use that.
So we could go one level further as an example.
So we'll have movie Amadeus movie The Shining and then in here I'll do another inner function.
I'll call this one extra enter
and we'll cancel that log.
Movie out upper uppercase in here
and I'll make sure I call extra enter.
So this is a very weird pattern.
What I'm doing right now but it illustrates the principles at play.
So when I call outer we define movie to Amadeus in the scope of the outer function then we execute inner
and inner.
We define movie right here with the value of the shining.
Then we execute extra inner extra inner does not have a movie defined inside.
So it will look up to the nearest scope which is the inner function and use that value.
So if I run outer we get the shining.
If I were to comment this out we don't get an error.
It just continues up past inner.
It doesn't find movie so it looks up again does it find a movie there and it does.
And that's pretty much it.
When you have a nested function you have access to the variables declared in the scope of the parent
function.
And that continues down as many levels as you need to nest.
This seems like it might be useless or not that useful.
But as I mentioned if you use things like react later on you define functions that represent a component
on your page.
So you could have a function called to do list.
And in that to do list component you might have different variables like let to DOS equals an array
and let the user name equal something then you would have different functions for that to do list you
would might have one called add to do.
I can spell to do you might have another one called removed to do and another one called update to do
and they might use to dos and use your name in their function bodies.
So we're grouping it all together into a To Do List function because that's what react once but we still
break up our code our functionality into smaller pieces and we have access to those variables declared
in the outer function.
Okay so that's lexical scope.